The Annual Egyptological Bibliography.The Annual Egyptological Bibliography is a standard reference work whichhas proved its value to Egyptology during the near half-century of itsexistence. The support expressed by those of you who have written to theBoard of Leiden University, and for which we are very grateful, has madethis quite clear, and it has produced a tangible result. The basic formal precondition for the AEB's continued existence, a transferfrom the Department of Egyptology of the Faculty of Arts of LeidenUniversity to the Netherlands Institute for the Near East, has now takenplace. Unfortunately, there remain financial obstacles to overcome. Thecurrent funding is not sufficient to provide for staff consisting of twoEditors (one full-time, one part-time), and additional resources of someHfl. 15,000 ($ 7,500) must be found annually to resolve this problem. Thecontinued existence and the possibility of further improvement of theAnnual Egyptological Bibliography are still at stake, but we are confidentthat with the help of all Egyptologists and Egyptological institutions thisdifficulty will be resolved.The Annual Egyptological Bibliography has been going through a ratherdifficult period in the past few years. A new radical start is, however,being made. The first part of a volume covering the years 1988-91 will bepublished in the course of 1994. The next "standard" volume, containingEgyptological titles for 1992, will also appear before the end of 1994 orvery early in 1995. From then on, the AEB will appear regularly every year.(The second part of the volume for the years 1998-91 is planned, but itspublication date has not yet been fixed.)In order to improve the financial situation, the price of the individualvolumes will, unfortunately, have to be increased to about Hfl. 120 (about$ 60). Every effort will be made to keep the price at this level forseveral years. Individual members of the International Association ofEgyptologists who order the AEB direct from the Editor will continue toreceive a 40% discount. We should like to stress the importance ofincreasing the number of individual subscriptions because this is the mosteffective way Egyptologists can help the project.At present, a number of institutions generously support the AnnualEgyptological Bibliography by annual donations. These are:Aegyptologisk Institut, CopenhagenBrown University, ProvidenceDeutsches Archaologisches Institut, CairoEgypt Exploration Society, LondonEx Oriente Lux, LeidenFondation Schiff Giorgini, GenevaGriffith Institute, Ashmolean Museum, OxfordHeidelberger Akademie der WissenschaftenThe Metropolitan Museum of Art, New YorkMuseum of Fine Arts, BostonOosters Genootschap in Nederland, LeidenOriental Institute, Chicago Royal Ontario Museum, TorontoSchweizerisches Institut, CairoSociete francaise d'Egyptologie, ParisUniversity of LiverpoolUniversity Museum, The University of Pennsylvania, PhiladelphiaVitterhets Akademie, StockholmYale University, New HavenThe help of these enlightened institutions has been essential in the pastand will be even more important in future. We hope that they will continue,and if possible increase, their support. We should like to ask otherinstitutions to join them. The loss of the Annual EgyptologicalBibliography would be a tremendous loss for Egyptology. It is up to all ofus, Egyptologists and Egyptological institutions, to ensure that thisimportant reference tool continues to be compiled and published.Dr. Jaromir Malek (Chairman of the AEB Committee)Drs. Louis M. J. Zonhoven, Drs Willem Hovestreydt (AEB Editors)Prof. Dr. Dietrich Wildung (President of the IAE)Prof. Dr J. de Roos (Director of the Netherlands Instituut voor het NabijeOosten)Notice for subscribers to the AEB:The International Association of Egyptologists and the NetherlandsInstitute for the Near East, Leiden, as joint publishers of the AnnualEgyptological Bibliography, wish to inform new individual subscribers thatmembers of the International Association of Egyptologists are entitled to a40% reduction on the full retail price of the volumes of the AnnualEgyptological Bibliography. The full retail price is Hfl. 120 per volume,the reduced price for individual IAE members is Hfl. 72 (plus postage andpacking). Every effort will be made to keep the price of the AEB unchangedat the present moderate level for at least the next four volumes.Subscription form:I wish to subscribe to the Annual Egyptological Bibliography at the reducedprice. I am a member of the International Association of Egyptologists andso I am entitled to a 40% reduction on the full retail price.Name:Address:Country:Signed:(Please send this form to The Annual Egyptological Bibliography,Netherlands Institute for the Near East, P.O. Box 9515, 2300 RA Leiden, TheNetherlands.)