Archaeologists find clues to Alexander's tomba0857reuter i BC-EGYPT-ALEXANDER   01-30 0201^BC-EGYPT-ALEXANDER@ ^Archaeologists find clues to Alexander's tomb@    CAIRO, Egypt (Reuter) - Archaeologists believe they may havefound the burial site of the Macedonian leader Alexander theGreat near a remote Egyptian oasis town, officials said Monday.    Alexander, who died in 323 BC in Babylon, is believed bymany historians to have been buried in the Mediterranean portcity he founded and which is named after him -- Alexandria.    The officials said a team of Greek archaeologists workingnear Siwa oasis, in Egypt's Western Desert, uncovered threetablets indicating Alexander's body might have been taken therefor burial after he died in a military campaign.    Abdul Wahab Tahoun, a local official, told Reuters bytelephone one of the tablets described sacrificial offerings atthe temple of Amun in Siwa and mentions a body, possiblyAlexander's, which it said had been carried there.    He had visited the temple of Amun in Siwa in 332 BC, seekingconfirmation from the oracle of his belief that he was thedivine son of the god Amun.    The oracle duly complied and Alexander went on to wage waragainst Darius, ruler of modern-day Iraq and Iran.    The tablets were discovered this month in a cemetery about12 miles west of Siwa, Tahoun said. REUTERReut10:45 01-30Reuter N:Copyright 1995, Reuters News ServiceTablets may solve mystery of Alexander's gravea0584LBY669reulbr i BC-EGYPT-ALEXANDER   01-31 0741^BC-EGYPT-ALEXANDER (SCHEDULED)@ ^Tablets may solve mystery of Alexander's grave@    By Dominic Evans    CAIRO, Jan 31 (Reuter) - Three crumbling stone tablets foundnear a remote Egyptian oasis may settle at last a centuries-oldrow over the final resting place of the ancient warrior-kingAlexander the Great, archaeologists said on Tuesday.    They said the tablets, uncovered earlier this month by aGreek excavation team, prove that Alexander's body was carriednearly 1,200 miles (1,900 km) from Babylon, where he died in 323BC, for burial near Siwa Oasis in Egypt's Western Desert.    The Greek excavators are expected back in Cairo shortly anda decision will be taken on excavating the actual burial chamberin the grave where the tablets were found.    Historians have long believed the Macedonian leader, whoseconquests spread from the eastern Mediterranean deep into Asia,was most probably buried in the Egyptian coastal city he foundedand which was named after him -- Alexandria.    No one has come up with firm proof, but the latestdiscoveries will have to overcome deep scepticism fromhistorians who have spent years of detective work retracing thetortuous wanderings of Alexander's body.    ``It looks like they have found the tomb of Alexander,'' thechairman of Egypt's Supreme Antiquities Council, Abdul-HalimNoureddin, told Reuters after visiting the site. ``It may bedifficult for many people to imagine... But the whole matter isopen for people to see.''    He said the tablets were found in a grave, similar to theburial site in Macedonia of Alexander's assassinated fatherPhilip II. The grave lies about 20 km (12 miles) west of Siwa.    The entrance to the grave, devastated by an ancientearthquake, is flanked by statues of two lions. A seven metre(yards) long corridor leads to two anti-chambers and finally thefour-metre by four-metre burial chamber, he said.    Noureddin said one of the tablets bears an inscription,believed to have been written by Alexander's deputy in EgyptPtolemy I, describing how he brought the dead king, revered asthe son of the god Amun, to Siwa:    'Alexander, Amun-Ra. For the sake of the honourableAlexander, I present these sacrifices according to the orders ofthe god, (and) carried the corpse here -- and it was so light,as much as a small shield -- when I was commander of Egypt.    'It was me who was caring about his secrets, and who wascarrying out his wishes. And I was honest to him and to allpeople, and as I am the last one still alive I hereby state thatI have done all the above for his sake.'    Another tablet says the shrine was built for Alexander,describing him as ``the first and the unique between all, he whodrunk the poison'' -- offering a new insight into the death ofthe warrior-king who was thought to have died of a fever.    The third tablet mentions some 30,000 soldiers who wereappointed to guard the Siwa tomb. ``It means it was veryimportant. Everyone was quarrelling about the body, they allwanted the honour of guarding it,'' Noureddin said.    But the unearthing of the tablets, described by CultureMinister Farouk Hosni as rivalling the discovery of boy-pharaohTutankhamun's treasure-laden tomb 70 years ago, has failed toimpress some historians.    Fawzi Fakhrani, professor of Graeco-Roman history atAlexandria University, said the existence of a tomb in Siwa wasno proof in itself that Alexander was buried there.    ``When he died in Babylon he was mummified until theydecided where he should be buried,'' Fakhrani said, adding hisgenerals argued over whether he should be taken to Macedonia,Alexandria, or Siwa, where the oracle had proclaimed him a deityin 332 BC, sanctioning his strike eastwards against Persia'sKing Darius.    Years of haggling ensued, as well as elaborate preparationsfor a gold coffin and marble sarcophagus. ``During these twoyears... they may have asked someone to make a royal tomb inSiwa,'' Fakhrani said.    ``But Ptolemy feared if he buried Alexander at Siwa somegeneral may have tried to lay hold of the body... So thereforehe buried him in (the ancient Egyptian capital) Memphis. Lateron when Alexandria was developed he was moved there.''    Fakhrani said the evidence of many Greek and Latin travelwriters and historians supported the Alexandria claim.    ``Nobody has seen any tomb in Alexandria. What people haveseen is only the necropolis, so I can simply say that this islooking as if it is the tomb of Alexander,'' Noureddin said. REUTERReut08:36 01-31