	"CAIRO,  Feb.  5  - A high-level archaeological team from the  Greek Government,  investigating  claims that the tomb of Alexander the Great  had been discovered in Egypt's western desert,  visited the site today and  said that they saw no evidence that the tomb had been found.	But Liana Souvaltzi,  the archaeologist who announced last week that she had found the tomb outside the oasis of Siwa,  said on Saturday: "I have no reservations.  This is Alexander's tomb.  There is no doubt."	She  said  the  tomb was built in Macedonian style  and  that  three tablets uncovered at the site provided the archaeological proof.	One of the tablets, she said, was written by Alexander's lieutenant. Ptolemy I, and affirmed a legend that Alexander had been poisoned.  Another, she  said,  was left by the Roman emperor Trajan,  who she said had paid his respects at the site.	But the Greek team,  headed by the General Secretary of the Ministry of  Culture,  George Thomas,  said it was unclear if the structure  she  was excavating was even a tomb.	He  and  members of the team said that the style of the complex  was not,  as Mrs.  Souvaltzi said, Macedonian.  And they said that the fragments of  tablets  they  were shown did not support any of  the  translations  she provided as proof of her discovery.	The team members also said that the fragment they saw were from  the Roman period, some 300 years after the death of Alexander the Great.	"We are not sure if the complex is a tomb or temple," said Dr. Yanni Tzedakis,  the  Director of Antiquities for the Greek Government,  "although there  are elements of the Hellenistic period in the  rubble.   It  appears, however, to be from a later period."	Mrs.  Souvaltzi  has refused to allow the visiting team to read  her report  on the excavations.   She has also refused to brief the team on  her work.   She  gave  no  reason for her refusal to cooperate  with  the  Greek officials.	"The  fact that the report on the excavations is not being shown  to us  is curious," Dr.  Tzedakis said.   "She should present photos and plans, along with details of the excavations to back up her claim.   This is how it is done in Greece."	Abdel-Halim   Nureddin,   chairman  of  the   Egyptian   Antiquities Organization,  who  said earlier in the week that he supported the claim  by Mrs. Souvlatzi, now says he is less sure about the find.	"It is an important discovery," Mr.  Noureddin said, "but we have to be  a bit careful.   We must wait for further study and a reconsideration of the text."	Mrs. Souvaltzi, who has an archaeological degree from the University of Athens, has been excavating in the area around Siwa, 50 miles east of the Libyan border, for the past four years.	The inscriptions on the tablets, broken into pieces, were translated by Mrs.  Souvaltzi's husband, who has no formal archaeological training.  He also provides the financing for her research.	Mrs.  Souvaltzi,  who says she has received mystical guidance in her research,  in part from snakes,  has claimed in the past that this structure was  the tomb of Alexander.   She wrote an article in an Egyptian  magazine, published  by  Cairo  University  three years  ago,  saying  that  the  same structure was the tomb of Alexander.	The  report  was dismissed at the time by senior  archaeologists  in Egypt and Greece.	The  Greek team said that the fragments of tablets they  were  shown did not appear to support Mr. Souvaltzi's translations.  They also said that they  did not see the eight-pointed Macedonian star Mrs.  Souvaltzi says she found on what she describes as the tomb.	"These  inscriptions have nothing to do with the period  of  Ptolemy I," Mr. Tzedakis said, "and they are very well dated.  We did not see any of the  words  they  say were inscribed on  the  tablets,  not  Alexander,  not Ptolemy, not even the word poison."	Alexander,  King  of Macedonia,  led his armies out of Greece in 334 B.C.  at the age of 22 and conquered an empire that covered much of Asia and the Middle East.  Ancient texts indicate that, after his death in Babylon in 323  B.C.  on a military campaign,  his body was moved to Syria and then  to Egypt.  But his final burial place remains a mystery.	About 570 B.C., the Pharaoh Amasis built a temple in Siwa to the god Amun.   The  temple oracle was one of the most famous in antiquity  and  was famed for being able to answer difficult question.	Alexander went to Siwa in 332 B.C.  to see the oracle.   The oracle, according to legend, told Alexander he was divine and the son of Amun.	Ogden Goelet	goelet@acfcluster.nyu.edu