British MuseumEgyptian AntiquitiesNotice of Restricted Services: UpdateDue to the British Museum's extensive redevelopment and refurbishmentprogramme, certain galleries and services will be affected as follows:Displays:Rooms 25a and b (Sculpture Gallery Annexes) will be closed permanentlyfrom 1 July; Room 60 (Mummy Room) has already closed; Rooms 62 and 63will be closed by 1 July.Room 61 now contains a temporary display of Mummies and Daily Life;Rooms 62 and 63 will reopen at the end of 1998/beginning of 1999 witha new display of funerary archaeology (inc. mummies).>From November 1997, the Egyptian Sculpture Gallery (25) will bepartially affected, particularly the objects on the east wall.Visitor Services:In view of the forthcoming construction works up to 2000, the use ofthe Students' Room in the Dept of Egyptian Antiquities will beseriously restricted.Colleagues wishing to examine objects in the study collection arerequested to advise us as far in advance as possible. In thecircumstances, we cannot guarantee that all requested objects will beavailable for study. Due to construction works, objects in thebasement storage areas will be largely unavailable for the next two tothree  years; these include most large stone and wooden artefacts andall small sculpture and stelae. The Students' Room may have to closecompletely during certain periods up to 2000.The Department will remain open for general enquiries and theauthentication of objects between 2.00 and 4.30 on weekdays, butvisitors may experience some delays and a reduced service.Photographic Services:Customers with photographic requirements are advised to contact theDepartment's photographic officer well in advance of  any publicationdeadline (tel. 0171-323-8683; fax 1071-323-8303). Some short-noticerequests may have to be refused; delays in processing photographicorders are also expected.The department's email address is egypt@british-museum.ac.uk The British Museum website is http://www.british-museum.ac.uk