  OFFICE MEMO scholars interested in Demotic Date:10/9/96 It was agreed at the 6th International Congress of Demotic Studies held inCairo from September 2-8, 1996, that it would be very useful to have astanding list of scholars interested in Demotic studies.  For this reason,such a list will be compiled and maintained on the World Wide Web page ofthe Oriental Institute's Chicago Demotic Dictionary(http://www-oi.uchicago.edu/OI/PROJ/DEM/Demotic.html).  This list willalso be available, from Janet Johnson at the addresses below, to peoplewho do not have access through the Internet.  All scholars, whatever theirfield of specialization, who would like to be informed about futureinternational congresses for Demotic studies are requested to send toJanet H. Johnson, at the postal or e-mail addresses listed below, as muchof the following information as is relevant:  name, address, name andaddress of institution, phone number, FAX number, e-mail address, WWW-pageaddress, area(s) of interest within Demotic studies.  Since the value ofthe list will depend on its completeness and accuracy, which cannot beverified in Chicago, all Demotists and interested colleagues are urged tosubmit information about themselves, their current or recent students, andother interested colleagues.  As part of this list, an attempt will bemade to identify institutions which are currently involved in Demoticstudies.  For universities which offer a program in Demotic, pleaseprovide the name of the university and the specific department or programwithin the university, the address, phone and FAX number, and e-mail andWWW addresses of the department, and the name(s) and title(s) of facultyteaching Demotic.  For museums which have Demotic materials in theircollections, please provide the name of the museum and the specificsection or department of the museum, the address, phone and FAX number,and e-mail and WWW addresses of the department, and the name(s) andtitle(s) of the responsible curator(s).  For libraries which acquireDemotic materials, please provide the name (and any institutionalaffiliation) of the library, the address, phone and FAX number, and e-mailand WWW addresses of the library, and the name(s) and title(s) of theappropriate contact person(s).  If lists of recent and "in progress" dissertations and theses involving Demotic are provided, these will alsobe posted.Janet H. Johnson, Oriental Institute, University of Chicago, 1155 East58th Street, Chicago, IL 60637, USA;  e-mail:  j-johnson@uchicago.edu