Egyptology & Sudanarchaeology SAVED at Humboldt-UniversityOn March 30, 1998, in a meeting of the "Akademische Senat", the highestbody of the self-administration of the Humboldt-Universitaet zu Berlin, a2/3 majority of its members voted in favour of keeping the professorshipsof Egyptology and Sudanarchaeology at this university in spite of theexistence of Egyptology also at the Freie Universitaet (ex West-Berlin).After many hours of discussion this decision had been taken AGAINST allrecommendations of all other committees and administrative units of theuniversity which suggested to cut -for financial resons only- bothprofessorships at the Humboldt relying on an orally made promise that thevacant second professorship in Egyptology (focus: archaeology) at the FreieUniversitaet will be filled.This positive decision came as a total surprise to everybody, includingourselves, who did not see any chance left after the HU had recently evendecided to eliminate Germany's unique professorship in Sudanarchaeology tothe favour of an archaeology oriented second Egyptology professorship atthe FU. But due to the tradition which Egyptology (first chair in Germanycreated for Richard Lepsius in 1846) and Sudanarchaeology (independentdegree-subject initiated by the late Prof. Fritz Hintze) played especiallyat this university, individual Senators wanted to keep these subjects aliveat the Humboldt-Universitaet thus causing the long discussion about themand the vast majority to vote in their favours. However, I must emphasizehere, that this decision was mainly due to our students who, days beforethis important session, visited EVERY single member of the "AkademischeSenat" personally and informed them about the history and the meaning ofthese subjects, so that a problem called "Egyptology and Sudanarchaeology"was present in the minds of the Senators who in the majority were not evenrepresentatives of the Humanities!Accordingly, this totally surprising decision got an unusual press coveragein the Berlin daily papers. Here a quote from "Der Tagesspiegel" of 04/01in a report about the session: "Besonders stark setzten sich dieAegyptologen fuer die Erhaltung ihres Seminars an der HU ein. ErikaEndesfelder, Professorin am Seminar fuer Aegyptologie / Sudanarchaeologieverwies auf die Traditionen der Aegyptologie an der HU und auf dieBeteiligung ihrer Studenten an der derzeitigen Mumienausstellung imKunstgewerbemuseum. Und sie hatte Glueck, denn der Senat warf dieAbsprachen mit der FU ueber den Haufen und entschied sich, die Aegyptologieund die Sudanarchaeologie mit je einer Professur  an der HU zu erhalten."and from "Berliner Morgenpost" of the same day: "Ueberraschend beschlossder Akademische Senat, die Sudanarchaeologie - ein Unikum der DeutschenHochschullandschaft - und die Aegyptologie fortzufuehren."By the way, another subject which all committees and administrative unitswanted to cut but which the "Akademische Senat" again against allrecommendationsdecided to keep at the HU is Jewish Studies (through a permanentguest-professorship), while 'Koreanistik' with also a long and highlyesteemed tradition and currently two professors at the HU was cutimmediately without a word of discussion ...However, this was not the last battle to fight, the decisions taken by thedifferent universities in Berlin will now be evaluated by an independentcommittee of professors from all German universities ("Wissenschaftsrat") whowill propose to the Land of Berlin how the future structures of thoseuniversities should look like and should be financed by the government ...So we have to continue to keep our fingers crossed!Christian E. LoebenEgyptologyHumboldt-University of Berlin / Germanye-mail: h0539asi@rz.hu-berlin.de