From: cejo@midway.uchicago.edu (Charles E. Jones)Subject: KV 5Sender: owner-ane@mithra-orinst.uchicago.eduPrecedence: bulkStatus: RONow that this story is public, would any of you who've been in this tomb bewilling to comment?-Chuck- ^Pharaonic tomb may be largest found in Egypt@    (Releads, adds statement from antiquities council)    By Dominic Evans    CAIRO, May 15 (Reuter) - Archaeologists working in Egypt'sValley of the Kings have uncovered a vast royal tomb that may bethe biggest pharaonic burial chamber ever found, Egyptianauthorities said on Monday.    U.S. archaeologists explored the tomb, containing at least67 chambers, in February and believe that sons of the powerfulpharaoh Ramses II were buried there 3,000 years ago.    ``This may be the biggest burial chamber found in Egypt sofar,'' said Egypt's Supreme Council for Antiquities, quotingAmerican Egyptologist Kent Weeks.    Abdelhalim Nourredin, head of the antiquities council,described it as magnificent, even though it was in poorcondition and had been badly looted by grave robbers.    ``It is no doubt one of the biggest in the Valley of theKings. It's a very important find,'' Nourredin told Reuters.    The entrance to the tomb was discovered last century in therugged limestone walls of the valley, just 30 metres (yards)from the tomb of Ramses II himself, but floodwater debris hadblocked off all but three of the outermost chambers.    In February Weeks's team found a passageway leading past 20chambers to a statue of Osiris, god of the underworld. Thecorridor then divided into two more passages, each with 20rooms, which end in stairs leading perhaps to yet more rooms.    Most royal tombs in the valley, where the mummy of the youngpharaoh Tutankhamun was discovered in 1922 amid fabuloustreasures, are simple structures with a single corridor leadingto a main burial chamber.    ``This is a tomb of unique design and size from a crucialperiod in ancient history,'' Nourredin said.    Ramses II was one of ancient Egypt's last great rulers,famous for his campaigns against the Hittites to the north andfor building monuments all over Egypt during his 60-year ruleduring the 13th century BC.    The archaeologists found fragments of mummified bodies,statues, jewellery, furniture and food offerings inside thechambers, and some of the walls still bear ancient decorations.    ``(Weeks) hasn't been able to investigate all the tomb...(But) it will be something magnificent...They found fiveinscriptions marking this as belonging to the sons of RamsesII,'' Noureddin added.    A statement from the antiquities council said 50 of Ramses'sons may have been buried at the site, which is known toarchaeologists simply as KV 5.    Ali Hassan, head of the pharaonic sector at the antiquitiescouncil, said KV 5 was in bad condition and needed a great dealof treatment. The tomb is not expected to be opened forinspection because of its damaged ceiling and remaining debris.    He said Weeks was now in New York, where he will be joinedby Nourredin, who is seeking financial aid to help Egypt improverestoration and storage of its pharaonic heritage.    A giant sculpture of Ramses' head was the inspiration forEnglish poet Percy Bysshe Shelley's ``Ozymandias,'' which mockedhis aspirations to immortality.    Like dozens of pharaohs Ramses II had his tomb dug into theValley of the Kings, across the Nile from the ancient capital ofThebes, about 500 km (310 miles) south of modern Cairo.    His mummified corpse was later moved to prevent it fallingprey to grave robbers, and now lies in a glass viewing case inthe Egyptian Museum in Cairo.Reut10:12 05-15-95