Date: Mon, 13 Mar 1995 15:11:55 -0600From: cejo@midway.uchicago.edu (Charles E. Jones)Subject: "Stolen Egyptian antiquities came from old theft" ^Stolen Egyptian antiquities came from old theft@    By Jonathan Wright    CAIRO, March 13 (Reuter) - Stolen antiquities that led tothe arrest of three Britons came from a storeroom robbed in1985, the Egyptian antiquities department said on Monday.    Abdelhalim Noureddin, chairman of the Supreme AntiquitiesCouncil, said the objects came to light when buyers took them tothe British Museum in London for authentication.    The antiquities, including statues, amulets and some papyrusscrolls more than 3,000 years old, had been in storage atSaqqara, the necropolis for the ancient city of Memphis, addedZahi Hawass, director of antiquities on the Giza plateau.    ``At least the ones submitted to the museum were from the1985 theft,'' Noureddin told Reuters. ``Now we're trying to findout the scope of the whole operation.''    He said thieves had struck again at two other storeroomsthis year, once in the southern site of Karnak two months agoand once at Saqqara a few weeks later. ``They took only veryminor things,'' he added, without giving details.    Thieves later tried but failed to break into a thirdstoreroom at Dahshour, an important pyramid site 25 km (16miles) south of Cairo, he added.    Hawass said he thought police in Britain and Egypt hadarrested about 24 people in connection with the theft and thesmuggling of the antiquities to London. He could not give abreakdown for each country.    British police said on Sunday that after a lengthy andextensive police investigation, a British policeman and twoantique dealers had been charged with importing valuable stolenantiquities into Britain.    The spokeswoman said police interviewed three other peoplebut then released them on bail pending further enquiries.    Hawass said that the police had already recovered some ofthe antiquities and that the operation was a model forinternational cooperation against antiquities crime.    ``It shows cooperation can catch thieves,'' he said. ``Italso shows we must change our storage system at Saqqara and stopusing ignorant guards as caretakers,'' he added.