From: James_Hoch@campuslife.utoronto.ca (James Hoch)Reply-To: James_Hoch@campuslife.utoronto.caTo: ane@mithra-orinst.uchicago.eduSubject: Middle Egyptian Grammar-Key to ExercisesDate: 17 Sep 1995 19:11:15 GMTKey to Exercises I-XVI(E-mail version: the diacritical marks and special characters are lacking.The attached file is a Microsoft Word document for those who can use it. Thecontents are the same as the e-mail message text that follows.)This key is to be used to provide quick feed-back on one's progress. Theexercises should be completed before consulting the key for maximum benefits.When mistakes are discovered, the student should then try to see where the"wrong turn" was made. Note, however, that in some cases differences may notbe mistakes, but rather different interpretations. In obvious cases two ormore translations have been provided.This key was not intended to replace the instructor, and it is hoped thatinstructors will examine students' work covered by this key (corrected ornot) in order to address problems that may have arisen or to confirm orreject a possible reading suggested by the student.Lesson I1) to another man3) Another thing is there.5) The man speaks to another.Lesson II1) This scribe speaks to this woman.3) See, the scribe hears this plan.5) Look, the sun is in the sky.7) See, the boat is in the water when the sun shines forth in (or "from") thehorizon.9) The man hears another plan in the city.Lesson III1) Look, the steward's daughter is on her maid-servant's donkey.3) Re` crosses the sky in his great bark.5) The Lord of the Two Lands is in joy over this great construction project.7) See the mother of your servant in her little house, her children with her.(Or "See, the mother of your servant is in her little house, her childrenbeing with her.")9) Our lord send his servant to another city concerning this constructionproject.Lesson IV2) How sweet is the taste of honey! It is finer than anything in this land!4) A son who listens to his father when he is a child is good. (Or "Good is ason who listens to his father when he is a child.") How well it goes for himwith this advice in his heart every day.6) I am a hm-ntr-priest who does not know the taste of misfortune.7) Slaves of great strength are given to you together with kind-heartedfemale slaves.9) How great is this house of yours! It is rich in all sorts of fine things.Lesson V1) All the property of this temple was in good order when the hm-ntr-priestordered its inspection. (Or "that it be inspected")3) (As caption) Arrival of His Majesty to slay the enemy of vile Kush. (Asnarrative infinitive) His Majesty arrived to slay the enemy of vile Kush.5) I am one who is dearly beloved in the heart of his lord, who is generousto all the people of his town. (Or "who was*")6) The servant loaded it for his master after he had ordered that it be donefor him.8) He said it to him after sitting down upon his great throne.Lesson VI2) The wife of this loud-mouthed peasant is making 13 loaves of bread and 8jugs of beer to take to him and her children in the fields.4) Look, he is talking to your daughter!6) Amen-nakhte was eating a little bread and drinking beer, the third hour ofevening having arrived.7) He slayed 8 lions by shooting in the twinkle of an eye.8) The w`b-priest saw the goddess in the pool bathing herself, she havinglaid her garments on the ground.Lesson VII1) Look, it is good for people to listen. (Or "listening is good for people."Or, "Look, it is good to listen to people.")3) The children of the chief hm-ntr-priest were brought to me that I mightinform them of this fine thing.5) His Majesty came that he might eliminate corruption in this land in itsentirety and that he might let one town discover its boundary from (that of)another.7) He predicted this to me saying: "A ship will come from home. You are to gowith them (back) home so that you might die in your town." (Or "so that youmight go (back) home and so that*")9) They were fleeing headlong to Megiddo with faces of fear, having abandonedtheir horses and chariots of gold and silver.Lesson VIII1) One of these donkeys filled its mouth with a shoot of Upper Egyptianbarley.3) She had a chest filled with clothing brought to him.6) (The context requires a future time reference.) The rivers of Egypt willhave turned dry so that the water can be crossed on foot. One will search forwater for the boats in order to sail (on) it, its course having become asand-bank.Lesson IX1) Look, I have been appealing to you, but you do not listen to it. I will goso that I might make an appeal concerning you to Anubis.3) There is a box of flint there in the room called "Inventory" inHeliopolis. Look, it is in that box.5) He enters the house of Osiris. He sees the mysteries that are in it.7) Here I am come before you, having brought justice to you, having drivenout injustice for you, and not having done wrong against people.9) I had many pine ships constructed upon the mountains of God's Land in thevicinity of the Lady of Byblos, they being placed upon carts, with oxendrawing (them) as they travelled before My Majesty in order to cross thatgreat river that occurs between that land and Naharen.11) I am pure, there being no part of me devoid of righteousness, for I havebathed in the southern pool.Lesson X2) You are Ha`py who makes the meadows green, who re-establishes the ravagedtracts.4) The limits of art have not been attained. There is no artisan who hasmastered his craft. Fine speech is more hidden than green-stone. (Yet) it isfound with slave-girls at the grind-stone.Lesson XI1) Book of conjuring migraine headaches: Strip of fine linen, placed aroundhis head.3) Hereditary nobleman, Count, Supervisor of hm-ntr-priests, Hepdjefa says tohis ka-priest: "Look, all of these things that I have placed under contractwith (or literally "in the hands of") these w`b-priests are under yoursupervision. Now look, it is a man's ka-priest who perpetuates his things andwho perpetuates his funerary offerings."6) Here begin the prescriptions that are made to drive fleas from the house:You are then to sprinkle it with a natron-water (solution) in order to drive(them) out.Lesson XII1) He found him lying on a mat at the threshold of his wall, a slave at hishead anointing him, and another massaging his feet. (This sentence describeshow he found him, and one could also translate "how he found him was*" butsince this sentence type is the one normally used with gmi "to find," noparticular shift of focus is needed in the English.)2) Then this Nemty-nakhte said to his retainer: "Go get me a sheet from myhouse." Then it was brought to him immediately. He spread it out at the forkat the head of the path. Its fringe was resting right in the water and itshem right over the barley. This peasant walked along the public road. Thenthis Nemty-nakhte said: "Be so good, peasant, as to not walk upon my cloth!"(Literally: "Do well, peasant, so that you have not tread upon my cloth!")4) I returned serving him as an alert one with absolutely no loss havingoccurred in my troops. (It is possible, but less likely that the focus beginswith "serving him.*")6) I travelled at night. No sooner did the day dawn than I reached Peten. (Or"I reached Peten just as the day was dawning.")Lesson XIII1) (Geneology: Grandfather is Intef [no nick-name]. His son is Mery, calledKebi. Mery's son is named after the grandfather: Intef, but is calledIusonbu.)Regnal year 39, 4th month of Inundation, day 19.Transfer of title that the phyle controller Mery-called Kebi-son of Intefmade for his son, Intef-called Iusonbu.I am giving my phyle controllership to my son, Intef-called Iusonbu-son ofMery to be my staff of old age in view of the fact that I have grown old. Lethim be appointed from this moment.As for the transfer of title that I made for his mother previously, let it berevoked.As for my house that is in the estate of Hut-medet, it is for my children whowere born to me by the daughter of the attendant of the district magistrateSobek-em-het, Nebet-neni-nisu, together with all that is in it.List of witnesses in whose presence (literally "at whose side") this transferof title was made.3) Do the scales go wrong? Does the balance tilt to one side? Now does Thothshow mercy?Lesson XIV2) Wrongdoing has never brought to port its venture, for when the end comesaround, justice prevails.4) If you are a poor man, serve a wealthy man so that all your conduct willbe fine with the god. Do not find out for yourself (his) former poverty. Mayyou not be arrogant concerning him because of what you know of him fromformer times. Respect him in view of what has accrued to him. Wealth doesn'tjust come on its own. It is their law for the ones that they love.Lesson XVNo key is provided as the exercise is relatively straightforward, unlikeexercise XVI, for which the entire text is translated.Lesson XVISong that is in the chapel of Intef, justified, which is in front of thesinger with the harp.A fortunate one is this nobleman.Good is fate.Good is anihilation!One generation passes on;Another one remains,(As) since the age of the ancestors.The gods who existed before are at rest in their pyramids.The nobles and the spirits, likewise, are buried in their pyramids.Those who built chapels--their places are no more.What has become of them?I have heard the sayings of Imhotep and Hardedef,Cited by their quotations so much.What are their places (now)?Their walls have fallen to ruins.Their places are no more--as if they had not existed.There is no one who has returned from there,That he might tell of their condition,That he might tell of their circumstance,That he might soothe our hearts,Until we rush off to the place where they go.May your heart be glad therefore.Be forgetful of it--(it's) good for you!Follow your heart as long as you exist.Place myrrh upon your head.Dress yourself up in fine linen,Anointed with a true marvel fit for a god (literally "of a god's things")Increase your happiness.Don't be half-hearted.Follow your heart and your happiness.Be active on earth.Don't disobey your heart.That day of wailing comes to you,But the Weary-Hearted hears NOT their wailing!Their mourning has not retrieved a man's heart from there--from the tomb.Refrain:Celebrate the day.Don't get weary of it on me.Look, it is not permitted for a man to take his things with him.Look, there is no one who has gone who has returned again.