Just published by the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston:GIZA MASTABASEdited by Peter Der Manuelian and William Kelly Simpson=09Vol. 6A Cemetery of Palace Attendants=20by Ann Macy Roth=09ISBN 0-87846-385-213 1/4" x 10 1/2"203 pages  of text91 figures in text303 black and white photographs and 3 color photographs on 130 pages ofphotographic plates80 pages of epigraphic line drawing plates1 quadtone frontispieceCost: $100To order (orders CAN NOT be taken at the above email address!), please=20contact:VAN SICLEN BOOKS111 Winnetka RoadSan Antonio, Texas 78229-3613Tel. (210) 522-1353=09=20Fax (210) 522-1081Description of the volume:At the northern edge of the Western Cemetery, in the shadow of thegreat Fourth-Dynasty pyramids at Giza, lies a cluster of twenty-fiveFifth-Dynasty mastaba tombs. Between 1936 and 1939, these tombs wereexcavated by an expedition from Harvard University and the Museum ofFine Arts, Boston, under the direction of George Andrew Reisner. Aspart of a continuing project to publish the results of Reisner'sexcavations, expeditions from the Museum of Fine Arts returned to thecluster in 1987, 1989, and 1990 to record the decoration andarchitecture of these tombs. The results of this work have beencombined with the documentation left by Reisner's expedition toproduce a full archaeological description of the tombs and an analysisof their history.  Two circumstances make this cluster particularlyvaluable for the study of the process of Old Kingdom tomb building andcemetery control. First, there were two apparent changes in thedirection of access to the cluster. The tombs themselves show thescars of these shifts: doorways have been moved, porticos andcourtyards have been added, and walls have been encased in newmasonry.  As a result, even undecorated tombs can be dated on thebasis of their relationship to their neighbors. The shifts inorientation also suggest that the old roy al cemetery at Giza wasstill under some sort of state authority. The second importantcharacteristic of the cluster also reflects this state control.Burialin the area was apparently restricted to people who served the king inthe hierarchy of palace attendants (khenty-she). Since this hierarchyis = well known, it is possible to explore the degree to which rank atcourt affected various features of the tombs in a controlledchronological framework. The correlations that result suggest initialhypotheses for relating the form and position of a tomb to the lifehistory of its owner.  Although the interest of this cluster of tombslies largely in its architecture and constructional history, thepublication of the relief decoration of several of its chapels alsomakes an important addition to the corpus of relief art andinscriptions from the Old Kingdom period. New examples are presentedof rar= e scenes, such as bed-making, copulating desert fauna, acarrying-chair scene, and a scene of punishment in the marshes. Fourchapters analyzing the cluster as a whole are followed by a catalogueof the individual tombs, describing and discussing their excavation,architecture, decoration, inscriptions, and associated finds. Thetext, which contains almost a hundred illustrative figures, isfollowed by over two hundred photographic plates and epigraphicdrawings.